[AUDIO LOGO]
>> I'm Sarah Elkhaldy, and
this is Mystery Teachings.
[THEME MUSIC]
What if the key to
unlocking humanity's
next evolutionary leap
lies in the sacred union
of spirit and matter?
What if there was a way to
unite the shadow and the light
within us, the above and the
below, within and without,
to embrace your divinity and
experience the true oneness that
unites us all?
Whether we are aware
of this or not,
we are always seeking
whatever we think will make us
whole, whatever will
make us one with source.
We yearn to be one, and
the seeking and attracting
is like a magnet that
will always call us home.
But this journey to oneness
starts within our own body-mind.
Spiritual alchemy is the
transmutation of all base metals
into their highest form.
What this means is that we
are transmuting anything
that is unconscious
and disconnected
within our own being,
into something that now we
are aware of and gets
integrated into the light
of our own consciousness.
This is where we get the
term "enlightenment" from.
So spiritual alchemy is the
process of enlightenment.
It is the ascension process.
And this ascension
can only take place
between us and our higher self.
It is the unification and the
embodiment of our higher self.
The ancients used
the name hieros
gamos to describe this
process of enlightenment.
Hieros gamos is the apex
of spiritual alchemy.
Throughout history and
across every culture,
This concept of hieros
gamos or divine oneness
is prevalent in every
spiritual tradition.
It is depicted in Hinduism
as the Shakti, which
is the feminine
energy within us,
and the Shiva, which is the
masculine energy within us.
And then it progressed
into the Greek traditions,
which is where we originally
get the term hieros gamos from.
In esoteric psychology, hieros
gamos is called conjunction,
and is interpreted
as the individuation
process of a human psyche
to become whole and unified.
In Western esoterica,
hieros gamos
was depicted as the
chemical wedding
between the king
and the queen, which
was code word for the
soul and the spirit.
The chemical wedding
is also another name
for the inner alchemy happening
within the brain, which
is the process we explored
earlier this season,
known as the sacred
secretion, where
the pineal and pituitary glands
secrete the milk and honey
to activate our
ascension and awaken
our divine connection within.
So the sacred secretion is also
a part of spiritual alchemy.
It is the process of the
embodiment of our higher self.
The human form is the microcosm
of the whole universe.
So we are the microcosm
of the entire macrocosm.
And this is very
important to understand,
because we contain all
of the elements that
make up the macrocosm.
We have fundamentally
within each person all
of the macrocosm's elementals,
all of their archetypes,
all of their stardust, is
personified and animated
through the human form.
So because of that,
each human being
is comprised of both masculine
and yang energy, as well as
feminine and yin energy.
A very basic example of
this will be breathing.
When we breathe, we are
exhaling and inhaling, which
is both yang and yin energies.
It is both masculine to
breathe and it is feminine.
It is masculine for the
reason that yang energy is one
that protrudes outward.
So yang energy is one that
moves and extends externally,
while yin energy is
receptive and pulls inward.
So even just the
act of breathing
is an example how the human form
is a microcosm of the macrocosm.
So hieros gamos has
two stages to it.
The first takes place
on the horizontal plane
of our own
consciousness, and this
is between our
body and our mind,
also known as the
mind and the heart.
It is within our own masculine
and feminine hemispheres.
This is the harmony of
our unconscious, creative,
psychic, and receptive
aspects of self, represented
as the moon, brought into
equilibrium with our conscious,
active, discerning, and
objective aspects represented
by the sun.
Once we have integrated enough
of these dualistic bodies,
now we're able to
open up enough space
within the mind and the
heart for the second step
of hieros gamos,
which takes place
on the vertical plane of
our own consciousness.
This is now the
union between the ego
and the higher self, the
physical vessel and divinity.
So this is now, once again, a
union and a sacred marriage,
but it's taking place
with our higher self.
This whole process
of hieros gamos
is depicted in the
tarot card the magician
through the symbolism of him
raising one hand towards spirit
or upward, and the other hand
towards the table and the below.
On that table, there
are four elements there.
Those elements represent
earth, air, fire, and water.
What the magician is
doing is transmuting them.
He is pointing to the below
with his hand to the sky
because he's referring
to as above, so below.
And this internal alchemy
is one of a rectification.
The magician is the
archetype that hieros gamos
is completed through, because
the magician is the one that
is combining elements that
don't fit together like air
and earth and water and fire.
What he's doing is making
them become harmonious
and even optimal in
each other's presence.
All four of these elements, our
earthly physical body, our air
and mental body, our water and
emotional body, and our fire,
which is spiritual
intelligence body.
Once they are all combined,
they create the fifth element,
which is quintessence.
Quintessence is
what we also know
as the force of
unconditional love.
It is spirit, and so
spiritual alchemy's focus
is on taking all of
the different elements,
and then purifying them
and transforming them
into a single and
purified higher
self, or a single and
purified celestial being.
Within the spirit
of every age, there
is a specific
evolutionary process
that we are meant to embody
and to learn so that we
can progress to the next age.
This is how spiritual
evolution takes place.
So when it comes to
the spirit of our age
and what we are meant
to learn so that we
can have our spiritual
evolution progress,
it is through hieros gamos.
Hieros gamos can also be
known as unity consciousness.
And unity consciousness
isn't just something
that we experience
in peak states.
It's something that we can
stabilize and integrate
into our waking life
and even have it be
our whole level of experience.
So unity consciousness
is the next level
of our own humanity's shift.
So as we're transitioning
from the spirit of this age
and closing out
all of the lessons
and themes within
this age, we're
going to be transitioning into
the age of Aquarius, which
operates from unity
consciousness.
So if unity consciousness is
our next evolutionary step,
then the universe
will not allow those
who do not become enlightened
and unify to progress.
So any parts of
humanity that are still
left in the lower
frequencies or in toxicity
are not going to be able to
make it through the purification
process that we
are experiencing.
So the universe is
pushing us into wholeness,
and it's done through this
alchemical purification process
that we're currently in.
What is unconscious within
all of us will be different.
Some of us may be
very comfortable
with our emotional
body, and some of us
may be very comfortable
with our mental body.
And we might have
areas that we call
blind spots, where we don't
know how to integrate something.
We may not be great about
honoring our emotions
and knowing how important
the information that's
held within them is.
And so that would
be something that
is unconscious and disconnected
within our own being.
That would be the element
of water and earth
that then need to
become purified
through our own conscious
awareness of them
and through our own
embracing of them.
And it's through that embracing
and integration process
of whatever is in us that we
feel disconnected from that
becomes something
that now is embodied
and aware of and
now conscious of.
So this whole process
of hieros gamos
is meant to make us conscious of
all of the different dimensions
within us and make them
work together in a way
that they're coherent.
In truth, there can be
no health within a being
unless there is this
equilibrium between our left
and right hemispheres.
Because what you will find
is that anywhere where
we're imbalanced
or polarized, it's
going to produce
something that ends up
becoming a part of our shadow.
And the shadow isn't
a bad guy, but it's
something that
represents something
that we're disconnected from
within our own consciousness.
So anytime there's an
imbalance within our own psyche
and an imbalance between
the body and the mind,
there's going to have
some form of discord,
some form of internal conflict
that produces unhealth and even
toxicity within our being.
So equilibrium is not meant to
mean that we all act the same
and we are all the same.
In fact, equilibrium
simply means
that we are all
allowing each part
of our own psyche
and each element
within us to fully be embraced.
So this isn't going to
look the same for everyone.
In fact, this process will be
something that always brings us
into our own personal
health, but we're still
going to maintain our own
unique aspect of source.
So we're always going to
still maintain our uniqueness.
It's just going to
be in a healthy form.
The human condition has so
many different states to it,
and the more that we evolve
epoch by epoch, age by age,
not only does it look different,
it comes with new abilities.
So unity consciousness and the
higher timelines for humanity
don't look exactly the
same as our human form
and our current human condition.
What we can expect when
we progress and evolve
to the higher
timelines for humanity
is now hieros gamos allows
us the communication
that we wish to receive from
not just psychic abilities,
but also what Vedic
terminology knew as siddhis.
Siddhis are supernatural
powers that we
attain in advanced
states of consciousness.
Each siddhi is a
specific ability
that appears magical to
us, because in some way
it defies the current laws
and rules of this reality,
like effortless manifestation,
astral projection,
and bi-locating.
But out of all of the many
supernatural abilities,
the most common are an innate
knowing and understanding
of the universe, as
well as precognition
of the future,
telepathy, premonitions,
and remembering past lives.
So spiritual alchemy is the
unification and the coherency
created within our
own consciousness
and within our own being.
Then false alchemy would be the
separation and the disconnection
of our own aspects of our
psyche and our own aspects
of consciousness.
False alchemy is the misuse of
alchemical principles in pursuit
of material gain, while ignoring
the deeper spiritual purpose
of transformation.
It's when we are polarized into
one aspect or only one part
and dimension of our own being.
So polarization
is naturally going
to lead to some imbalance
that becomes toxic.
And the main issue
with false alchemy
is that it leads to
degenerative timelines.
So if the rite of passage
and the spiritual initiation
for this age is
unity consciousness,
that's naturally
going to lead us
on a trajectory towards what we
would consider optimal timelines
or timelines that move forward
and progress in their evolution.
And whenever we
see something that
has a forward motion
and a positive timeline,
we will also see
its inverted form,
and that is the lower timelines.
So these are ones that all
reflect our psyche when
it is completely unintegrated.
And that is what false
alchemy really leads to.
Essentially, the higher
timelines for humanity
are ones based off of
our internal harmony.
And the lower
timelines for humanity
are reflections and rooted in
our disharmony or disunity.
This can even progress
deeper and deeper
into levels of narcissism.
Narcissism is the inversion
of unity consciousness.
So whereas with
individuation, we
have the positive reflection of
having a single unified being,
narcissism would be
when we are in denial
of all of our internal parts,
and therefore, we deny others.
We deny them to the point
where now we are blocked off
from any higher awareness.
So narcissism in itself is
a deeply low frequency state
of being.
It's one where we carry
out our whole existence
through the egoic mind,
whereas a being who
has gone through the spiritual
alchemy of hieros gamos
has attained unity
consciousness.
And that is one where
we see ourselves
and our external reality as one.
So we see the world
and all other beings
as being a part of us and a
part of our consciousness.
The best way that we can start
applying this sacred union
within our own body-mind is
by honoring and discovering
all different
elements within us,
within our somatic body,
our emotional body,
and then our logical
and analytical body.
When we honor all of these
different facets of ourself,
and we're able to make
them aware of one another
so that they're working
together and in harmony
rather than in disharmony and
in conflict with one another,
now we're not in denial
of any part of our being,
and that's at the core
of spiritual alchemy.
It's really about
being able to embrace
all aspects and all dimensions
of our consciousness.
Hieros gamos is the
transformative force
that allows us to merge our
inner opposites, unlocking
the divine potential within,
and elevating us into higher
realms of consciousness.
By mastering this
alchemical process,
we become conscious creators of
a unified reality, transcending
separation and ego.
The choice is yours.
Will you remain stuck in the
old paradigm of separation?
Or embody this sacred
union of hieros gamos
and ascend with humanity?
Throughout this
journey, we've seen
that the power to shape
your reality ultimately
lies with you.
From understanding
the hidden forces that
influence your
choices to mastering
the art of spiritual
sovereignty by awakening
to the subtle energies
of your chakras,
embracing alchemical
practices like hieros gamos,
and reclaiming
your free will, you
step into the creator
seat of your life.
The timeline you choose
isn't predetermined.
It's crafted with every
conscious decision you make.
The power to create,
heal, and evolve is yours.
Remember, the universe
responds to your frequency,
and your inner
transformation is the key
to unlocking the limitless
potential that awaits.
Time to consciously choose
the reality you were always
meant to experience.
I'm Sarah Elkhaldy and thank you
for watching Mystery Teachings.
[AUDIO LOGO]